# WeFontys
* DRAMS-group

WeFontys is intended to be a web platform where students and teachers from Fontys can view, create, and discuss questions and topics. All discussions listed on the website have a category assigned to them and the users can filter them by selecting the category of their choice in a side menu. Each discussion is based on a main question (or just a title), the initial comment of the author, and other comments posted by users. The option to like as well, as information about the author and how many people have posted comments will be present on each discussion page. A profile page will be created for each user on signing up where they will be able to alter their picture, username, topics of interest, and other credentials like email and password.

## Technologies that will be used
WeFontys is developed in React, which is a Javascript component-based library. React is suitable for our project because with it we were able to create components once and reuse them in different places on our website. It also supports many other libraries and frameworks which expedited the development and made our application more robust. Bootstrap and React Bootstrap are two of those libraries and with them, we optimized our app for all screen sizes. However, custom styling from our side was also needed and for that task, we made use of and combined Modules Stylesheets and Sass preprocessor together in order to avoid any naming clashes that we might encounter in our components. 

For storing and fetching users and discussion data, our application makes requests to Firebase Realtime Database REST API with the library axios. For storing media content Firebase Storage was put to use. Firebase Authentication is our choice of authentication server as it provides easy-to-use functionality for signing up, signing in, resetting forgot passwords, and updating user accounts.
React Router is used for navigating the users to different pages as React is a SPA(Single Page Application) library and it only loads the application once(navigation happens without refreshing the website).

## Main features
The development of the application began with adding Firebase Authentication to our React app as we need users to first sign up and log in before posting any content.  Email/password method is used for signing in users as the app is intended to be used only by Fontys students and teachers and adding social media sign-in buttons would allow anyone to log in(we don't have access to Fontys auth API yet). After signing up a unique object with the user's data is created and send to Firebase Database where it gets stored and could be used for client-side requests. Pages related to the user’s profile (e.g profile and update profile page) as well as discussion pages are private routes, which means that they can only be seen if a user is logged in. Discussions data is also saved in Firebase Realtime Database with references to image URLs from Firebase Storage where users’ images are uploaded. Styling our components and optimizing their view for all screen sizes was mainly done with Bootstrap and react-responsive library so SCSS code for styling could be brought to a minimum.

